In the previous video, we already talk about
multi layer switch or layer 3 switch.
Next in this video, we are going to learn
how to configure SVI or switch virtual interface,
which is connecting between pc in the different
vlan using multi layer switch.
Okay let’s just start.
Here let’s remove the router.
Okay now we don’t have a router anymore,
and if you remember, we also already configure
dhcp server in the router.
So now the pc can not get an ip address automatically
anymore.
Let’s try it.
Here let’s click static and dhcp again.
Okay here failed.
This is because the dhcp server is gone.
Now let’s start configuring svi on multi
layer switch.
Later, the communication between vlan will
go through this multi layer switch.
If you remember, I already said that if computer
want to communicate with other computers that
in the different network, the computer will
be need a default gateway.
So in this case, the default gateway will
be the ip address of multi layer switch.
So now we need to configure an ip address
in the multi layer switch.
Let’s start.
Go to CLI, enable, and then go to global configuration
mode.
We will need to configure an ip address for
each vlan.
In the router, we need to create sub interface
to configure ip address for each vlan.
So let’s say fa0/0.10 for vlan 10, fa0/0.20
for vlan 20 and others.
But in the multi layer switch, we don’t
need to create sub interface.
We can configure the ip address in the vlan
interface.
Let’s configure for vlan 1 first.
So interface vlan 1, and then the ip address
is 192.168.1.1 255.255.255.0.
Okay here we have done configuring the ip
address of vlan 1.
Next let’s configure for vlan 10.
So go to interface vlan 10, and then the ip
address is 192.168.10.1 255.255.255.0
Next let’s configure for vlan 20.
The ip address is 192.168.20.1 255.255.255.0,
and last let’s configure for vlan 30,
the ip address is 192.168.30.1 255.255.255.0
Okay now we have done configuring ip address
for all vlan.
Let’s verify it.
Do show ip interface brief.
Okay here we can see a lot of interface.
And the interface vlan is in the buttom.
Okay here we can see the ip address for vlan1,
vlan 10, vlan 20, and vlan 30.
But here we can see that for vlan 1, the status
is administrative down, this is means that
we need to use no shutdown in vlan 1.
And here for vlan 30, the status is down,
this is because we don’t have vlan 30 yet
in this multi layer switch.
Let’s check it, do show vlan brief.
Okay here we can see that we don’t have
vlan 30 yet.
If we see in the topology, actually we don’t
have vlan 30 that attached to multi layer switch.
But because this multilayer switch will become
gateway and in the room 1 we have vlan 30,
so we also need to create vlan 30 in this
multi layer switch.
So let’s create it.
Vlan 30, the name is engineering.
Let’s check the vlan again, okay here we
can see that now we have vlan 30.
Now let’s see the ip address again, do show
ip interface brief.
Okay here we can see that vlan 30 is up.
For vlan 1, this is still administrative down,
remember that if the status is administrative
down like this, this is means we need to no
shutdown the interface.
Let’s go to interface vlan 1, and then no
shutdown.
Let’s check again, do show ip interface
brief.
Okay here we can see that the status is already
up.
Okay for now we have done configuring the
ip address for all vlan in the multi layer switch.
I think enough for this video, in the next
video, we are going to configure the ip address
in all pc and test connection between vlan.
Okay thankyou for watching and see you on
the next video.